My name is Christian Christian Christian
it's the river of death
we must go through there's no other way
around
[Music]
Hopefull okay I'm thinking I can't make
it through no Christian
I feel the bottom we can make it I can
see the gate my burden I can feel it my
sins are sinking me to the bottom I
can't escape no Christian your burden is
gone open your eyes you're going to make
it to the other side no it's too deep
I've been abandoned my sin was too great
you have been made whole
look there he waits for you he made a
promise to you Christian yes yes I see
him again I see the other side I see it
well why don't I tell you how my journey
began
[Music]
As I said before my name is Christian
that's me sitting under that tree there
I should be easy to spot because of that
enormous burden on my back that burden
you see was my sin it was full of the
lies that I had told the things that I
had stolen the curses that I'd said not
everyone had such a burden where I lived
they all had sin but they didn't feel
troubled by it like I did so it wasn't a
burden to them you see I had been given
a book the Holy Bible and as I read it I
became more and more aware that the city
I lived in was going to be destroyed by
fire
that is where I lived the city of
destruction sure it seems obvious now
that this place was destined for death
but sin had blinded me I realized that
because of sin the city and its people
would soon perish I knew I had to escape
somehow I had tried desperately to
convince my wife of the destruction that
was coming but she enjoyed the world too
much and didn't want to face the
possibility of losing it she called me a
fool and thought of it no more
and so I spent my days in the field
reading from my book crying not knowing
what to do it was that day that I met
evangelist what must I do to be saved
um excuse me but what troubles you so
much young man well you see I've been
reading this good book and I know that
I'm doomed to die for the sins that I
carry and I'm afraid that when I die my
burden will be so heavy that it will
sink me lower than the grave and so you
would like to escape from this city and
also free yourself from that burden yes
but I can't see how that's possible I am
a wretched person how can sin be undone
what hope is there for me well do you
see that light shining over the field go
towards that light and you will see a
small gate when you get there knock and
you will be told what to do now run and
don't look back well look at that
pliable he's actually leaving this time
we should run after him obstinate and
bring her back with us just don't let
him trick you with anything he says I
know how impressionable you are remember
he's not well in the head
neighbors why are you here we've come to
take you back with us of course that's
not possible your city is going to be
destroyed by fire come with me good
neighbours and leave our friends and
comforts behind what could you possibly
be searching for that would be worth
leaving the whole world behind you all
of this is worthless compared with just
a small piece of what I hope to enjoy
I seek an inheritance in heaven away
from this world read about it here in
this book ha away with your book are you
coming back with us or not I cannot
let's go pliable well wait a second
obstinate what if what he says is true
maybe we should go with him what's this
more fools still there's no telling
where this brain sick man will lead you
very well go on with him you'll be back
well we should get going you say that
you know the way to this magnificent
place I've been told by a man named
evangelist to go to a gate and we will
be given instructions there so tell me
more about this place where we are going
well it is a place of eternal life
there's no suffering no cruelty none of
the horrible things of this world we
will meet God and live in a place that
he has prepared for us I would God want
us to live with him are you sure we will
be welcome we are his creation his
children he wants nothing more than for
us to seek Him won't he know about the
bad things I've done I've done evil
things as well but God must have a way
to cleanse me or there wouldn't be such
a desire in my heart to find him I can
only trust that he will have a way to
save me out of mercy and you sure that
your book speaks the truth it is written
by God and God cannot lie I hope we will
be there soon whoa
is this your promised land if this is
what happens at the very start of our
journey
who knows what dangers we will face
later I'm going home
[Music]
They call this place the swap of despond
people get stuck here all the time
my name is help you see when you
realized that you were a sinner this
place filled up like a swimming pool
with your guilt and your fears and your
doubts
the Lord has tried to fix this ground
and even put good steps through it but
people still fall in all the time and
get stuck in the waste of their own sin
I'm glad I was able to help you you'd
better be on your way now
you're right thank you I can get back on
my path now I should be at the gate soon
hey whoa whoa there where are you going
with that large burden on your back I'm
going to the small gate evangelist told
me how to get there evangelist
you
right up that hill there you go learn to
be a moral person and you will earn
heaven
[Music]
No it's going to fall on me I was a fool
to take this road I will be crushed
under the weight of this mountain well
huh
who was it that told you to come this
way mr. Worldly wise man told me he said
I could become a moral person and free
myself I see Christian the people in
this town are in bondage they are slaves
to a law that cannot save them not one
person has ever been saved by trying to
be good you are looking at this all
backwards you cannot earn heaven by
being good because an evil heart can do
no good stay on the path that I showed
you and you will begin a real
transformation and the good deeds you do
then will be genuine and come naturally
good deeds are the effect Christian not
the cause I was a fool will you help me
get back on the right path I will
[Music]
Knock and it shall be opened unto you
uh-huh hello my name is goodwill and you
are I am just a sinner from the city of
destruction I am trying to flee from the
wrath that is coming and reach the
celestial City the City of God I'm told
that it is through this narrow gate will
you please let me through with all my
heart
whoa why did you pull me that is the
castle of Beelzebub on that hill
he shoots arrows of fire at all that
approach this gate hoping that they will
die before they reach it
oh yes here they come now
we must run nonsense we are perfectly
safe we are on the other side of the
game.
[Music]
Now then where was I
this is the path you must now follow it
is as straight as a ruler there are many
other paths that branch away from it
paths that are very wide stay true to
this straight narrow path to the place
of deliverance then you can finally be
free of that burden once and for all you
must first however stop at the house of
the interpreter he can teach you many
things
[Music]
Where is that question he should be here
by now I hope he didn't get sidetracked
ah I was starting to get worried about
you
come in come in I am the interpreter I
keep it a bit dark in here
that's so you can pay attention to the
things that you are supposed to pay
attention to ah here we go I've put
together a little presentation for you
you know to make things easier did you
want popcorn no no thank you
suit yourself roll the film do you know
who this is
Christ that's right
Jesus Christ the Son of God he is the
only person that God ever gave authority
to to be our guide in all difficult
places remember this well four others
have made false claims to speak for God
but their ways always lead to death now
here is a man in a very dusty room it
looks like he is going to try to sweep
it oh my look at that dust fly you will
never clean it up like that but wait a
second let's see what happens when some
water is sprinkled on the floor oh look
at that the dust is cleaned what does
this mean the room is the human heart
the dust was this man's original sin and
corruption when he swept he was trying
to clean it with God's law he thought
that he could clean it by himself but he
couldn't he just stirred the dust up and
almost choked on it the water is the
gospel of Christ with it the room was
cleaned so his heart was cleansed not by
his hard work but by the gospel of
Christ
here are two children
one is named patience the other is named
greed they have both been told that they
will have good things but greed cannot
wait he wants it all now patience is
waiting quietly and discontent since
greed cannot wait he has been given a
bag of treasure but soon his treasure is
spent and he is in rags again patience
is the last to receive her reward and
since she is last her treasure lasts
forever remember the first must make
room for the second the second must make
room for the third but the last must
make room for no one
therefore the treasure that is given
last is eternal and what is this a wall
is burning it looks like a man is
throwing water on the fire but the fire
cannot be put out well look there you
cannot see him but there is another
person quietly pouring oil on the wall
from the other side and feeding the fire
so that it will never go out what does
it mean the wall is your spirit the fire
is the fire of God working in you the
man throwing water on the fire a Satan
the devil he doesn't understand why he
can't put the fire out
the man putting oil on the wall is.
Christ he pours the oil of His grace on
the fire and will never let it die now
if you let your guard down the devil's
efforts grow stronger and the fire
weakens but it never goes out.
[Applause]
Who is this man why does he look so sad
well why don't you ask him sir what has
happened to you I once thought I was
righteous and I was happy with such
thoughts but I gave in to my lusts and
desires
I wanted worldly things and turned my
back to God now I have difficulty taking
pleasure in his word I have lost myself
to my temptation I am in an iron cage of
despair since I have not counted his
grace as a holy thing I have shut myself
out of his promises for this world lord
help me to watch and be sober so that
this man's misery never falls on me
remember it well you can lose your
earthly blessings of joy and peace by
choosing to give in to the evil desires
of this world accepting Christ and
walking with Christ can be two very
different things
there is much joy in walking with Christ
turning your back on him puts you right
back into the despair of this world I
will remember you are ready to continue
your journey young Christian
[Music]
What does this mean
are you Jesus the Son of God are you
here to die for the sins of the world
you see I have this my burden my sin I I
cannot rid myself of it will you be kind
enough to bear it for me and die for me
as well.
[Music]
Your sins have been forgiven you are a
new creation
you now bear the mark of Christ it
cannot be removed go in peace
[Music]
You there wake up why do you let
yourself sleep like this don't you see
that you're in shackles there's a great
beast that walks this road if he finds
you like this you will surely be eaten
hmm I see no danger let me help you yes
yes just a bit more sleep first every
man must take his own path you take your
way I'll take mine it's all the same in
the end.
[Music]
You go first hypocrisy no no formality I
insist you go first
are you sure this spot is the easiest
way over positive 123 Wow hello there
my name is formality and this is
hypocrisy we are going to the celestial
city why did you not come in at the
small gate at the start of this path who
has the time we come from the town of
boasting it is our custom to enter this
way but you will be considered no better
than thieves for entering this way you
entered at the gate we climb to the wall
and here we all stand how is your
position any better than ours
hmm the hill of difficulty well this
won't do it's much too steep oh these
two roads are much better I'm sure they
go around this hill and meet on the
other side you take that one and I'll
take this one
don't you see that those roads are named
danger and destruction do you not see
the results of your trespass you are
just as quick to abandon the narrow path
as you were to jump the wall to reach it
bah we will reach the celestial city
before you even reach the top of this
hill let's go
well oh dear
am I sure the way out
[Music]
What's this Lyons I will be torn to
pieces if I do not turn back you there
is your faith so weak the Lions are
chained they are there to test your
strength stay in the middle of the path
and you will not be harmed thank you
what is this place this is a place built
by God for pilgrims such as yourself
it is a house for God's family a family
that you are now a part of they are here
to give you support and to give you
strength please come inside can I help
you um hello
I was told that I might be able to stay
here for the night as this place was
built for the relief of pilgrims such as
myself I am tired and would enjoy
resting in the company of people who
walk with the Lord please may I come in
my name is discretion please come inside
and meet the rest of the family
[Music]
Tell me Christian what made you leave
your country I had a terrible fear that
everything around me would be destroyed
I feared for my soul I am thankful that
evangelist found me and told me about
the small gate that put me on this path
I don't know if I would have found it
otherwise do you ever miss the city of
destruction sometimes I do and I am
ashamed of that I fear that I will never
be completely free of worldly thoughts
I'm just glad that those thoughts are
now my shame and not my joy my joy now
is looking ahead to the better country
that has been promised to me did you not
have a wife why did you not bring her
with you I did have a wife which she
could not let go over the world that she
knew she thought that her things brought
her happiness
did you try your best to persuade her to
go with you did you perhaps give her a
reason to think poorly of your cause no
I was very careful to be loving and
everything I said in fact what
frustrated her was how careful I was not
to sin and how I felt that we should
love others even our enemies she found
that foolish well there was your love
that turned her away then you are not to
blame.
I know that you are tired I will show
you to your room and you may rest we can
talk again when morning comes
[Music]
[Applause]
How beautiful what is that place those
are the delightful mountains you will
get there if you stay on the path
however there will be difficult times
before you reach them you must pass
through the valley of humiliation
then the valley of the shadow of death
which is full of traps to snare your
spirit and then there will be even more
dangers but you will not be alone come
with me to the armory you will be given
the armor of God stay on the path
keep your faith strong and nothing shall
be able to defeat you you will have
wisdom you will have straight you will
have God's protect you will have the
power of prayer you will be able to
overcome any
let's regard down the enemy is always
watching
[Music]
Hello who is there don't be frightened
you are from the city of destruction are
you not yes yes I am ah yes I remember
you I've been keeping an eye on you I am
the Lord and king of the land that you
come from and you are one of my servants
my name is apollyon tell me why would
you run from your king it is true that I
was born into slavery to you but I grew
up I want to mend myself
well no king would let his people leave
so easily nor will I let you leave come
back with me and I will grant you as
many riches as the world can afford
I have given my faith and allegiance to
a new king I would be a traitor if I
went back with you oh come now
people do it all the time besides you
have become a traitor to him already
you have strayed from your path time and
time again yes but my God is a king of
mercy and I know he has forgiven me I'm
an enemy to this god I hate him and his
people be careful what you do apollyon
this is the Lord's Highway don't you
know that the followers of your God
needs horrible ends usually by my hands
it is the path that I choose and no
matter what happens to me now I will be
alive in God's kingdom long after you in
this world have been forgotten
well then concerning what happens to you
now let's make the most of it shall we
[Music]
Cut off my arm I will grow another chop
off my tail I will grow three more you
are out matched and you will fall
rejoice not against me own mine enemy
when I fall I shall arise then take your
best shot at me after that I will show
you how long you are
you will never rise again not in this
world or the world to come
[Music]
Thank you.
Oh Lord for delivering me
turn back while you can it's horrible
snares and evil spirits horrible sounds
of suffering no one could survive it
turn back.
[Music]
The valley of the shadow of death dishes
this way this way don't worry I know
right where I'm going this way.
[Music]
Where is it that you think you work oh
you don't even know I don't even know
what you're do where you going God
doesn't even know you
it doesn't even know you were here go
back the way you came you will die if
you keep on this way you're about to
fall or to go back don't you want to
turn no you are not my voice all I need
is prayer Lord be with me and give me
strength the shadow of death I will fear
no evil for thou art with me hello wait
let me walk with you
excuse me wait can I walk with you I
cannot wait for you but I will gladly
walk with you you catch up huh my name
is Christian hi my name is faithful are
you also going to the celestial City yes
I am and it will be good to have some
company on the way there well then
you're in luck
here's another fellow hello hello mind
if I walk with you I'm a good companion
to walk with as I enjoy talking about
things that are good and righteous
well how wonderful well it is the most
wonderful thing to talk about religion
and the Bible and God it is very
meaningful to talk about those things
well it is very good to talk about the
way those things are meaningful in our
lives well that's what I said it's
meaningful to talk about those things
what a wonderful traveling companion we
have found uh-huh don't be fooled by him
his name is talkative I know him better
than he knows himself his religion is in
his mouth not in his heart
ask him how the grace of God has changed
his life may I ask a question ask me any
question and I will have an answer yes
well tell me then what God's grace has
done in your life that is an excellent
thing to talk about first it makes me
cry out against sin shouldn't it make
you despise and hate sin well that's
what I said I cry out against sin well
anyone can cry out from a pulpit against
sin but can be happy to let it live in
their heart and in their home well I
also have great knowledge of religion in
the Bible yes but one could easily know
all things about the Bible and still not
believe just as a servant might have
knowledge of his master's will but not
obey it you could have a library of
knowledge and not one word of wisdom
wisdom is a gift from God huh you set
traps for me we will just have to
disagree
well you were right about that one well
hello again good pilgrims evangelist
it's good to see you again I hope the
road has not been too dangerous there is
nothing the world can throw at me that I
can't handle don't let yourself be
overconfident there are always more
dangers you are about to travel through.
Vanity Fair a place where the world will
try to sell you its many treasures
things that are poison to your soul even.
Christ himself had to pass through this
way in the devil offered to make him a
prince over the fair and over all
worldly things
Christ passed it by and so must you you
cannot escape the world while you live
in it but you can keep it out of your
heart one more thing keep your faith to
the very end no matter what end it may
be okay okay
[Music]
Stop get your stuff right here start a
new life collecting and taking care of
stuff keep it shiny everyone else will
want what you have and that makes you
important.
[Music]
Popularity popularity claim it for
yourself right here be the most popular
guy in town be famous
everyone want to be you beauty don't you
want to be more beautiful than everyone
else
come get it here if you look better then
you will be better
[Music]
Why aren't they buying anything did we
miss something is there something else
no there's nothing else carry on
something is wrong with those two
[Music]
Well good evening my name is judge hate
good it seems that you have several
charges brought against you you are
charged with disturbing the fair you are
also charged with dividing the town you
caused quite a stir and you even want a
few people over to our dangerous way of
thinking of course we can't have that I
hate to admit it but many of the people
in vanity fair can be easily pulled away
if they think that there is something
better therefore your ideas are not
welcome and by not participating in the
fair you make yourselves criminals more
to the point by threatening to pull
others away from us you make yourselves
our enemies you are to be locked in the
dungeon and beaten until you decide to
join the rest of us that is all yes it's
true two people came through yesterday
and didn't buy a thing they were offered
titles glory wealth houses properties
crowns jewels and all sorts of things
they walked by as though none of those
things mattered other people took notice
of that and began to question the value
of those things as well the whole Fair
was in an uproar
so they put them in the dungeon but why
do they do something wrong they
disrupted the peace and upset the fair
how well they did was pass through they
didn't say an unkind word to anybody
that's not the point
their misguided beliefs are dangerous
but how if people want to leave the fair
and follow them then they should be able
to who are you to yell Zebub will not
tolerate this kind of talk the fair is
and chaos you know what must be done if
we wish these conflicts to end yes
fetch me one of them and if order is not
restored we will just make an example of
both.
[Applause]
Thankfully no no faithful wait no
[Music]
[Applause]
Well hello I'm on my way to the
celestial city sorry I can tell you and
rather be left in peace I have come from.
Vanity Fair you came from there as well
did you not okay
well I'll leave you alone then my name
is hopeful by the way are you troubled
because of your friend you don't know
anything about that
she was taken for no reason her death
was in vain
you are wrong her death was not in vain
I was trapped in Vanity Fair under its
spell the cruelty they showed to your
friend opened my eyes myself and several
others left Vanity Fair because of what
happened we saw how corrupt it was I
want to have faith like your friend I am
hopeful again because of her
this road was supposed to lead to the
delightful mountains but I don't know
anymore this road is only getting more
difficult I will believe you if you tell
me that we have gone the wrong way you
have been on the path longer than I have
well look there we should take that path
it is easier and leads through those
fields ok then I can't see the road
anymore I'm sorry I led you this way
it's ok Christian your mind was clouded
by regret and anger I should have kept
us on the right path we must not go
further tonight
it will only get worse we will find
their way again when morning comes
wakey-wakey.
[Music]
Hopefull outfall are you up there
hopeful wake up what time to milk cows
hmm
well good morning I hope you like your
room
you will be here for quite a while I'm
afraid my name is giant despair you
wandered from your path and onto my land
and now you belong to me
the days are blistering hot and the
nights are painfully cold you will feel
the events of this place more and more
as each day goes by without food or
water
see you in a few days.
Christian don't worry we will get out of
here I'm sure of it the Lord will
provide a way
[Music]
It was all for nothing all of the places
that I went the things I'd boldly spoke
of the things I blindly believed it was
all for nothing even if it was real at
some point my doubt is surely undone it
by now
I don't even remember where I was going
anymore I will never get out of this
place and that means that my journey was
for nothing I'm no better off than the
people back in the city of destruction I
will spend the rest of my life here in
more anguish and more sadness and I
would have felt on any other journey to
any other place simply because I
realized now that I may not ever get
there or worse yet it doesn't even exist
there's nothing left to give me hope
and that is where you are wrong there is
a way out and it's been right there in
front of your face the whole time look
around you this is your life and you
will never escape I'm not going to kill
you I'm just going to let you rot there
for the rest of your short life do
yourself a favor and end your suffering
while you still can
[Music]
Don't listen to him Christian this whole
castle is built upon lies the Lord will
provide a way we must only be patient
and never lose hope the Lord will
provide the key
[Music]
Okay one would be a key to a castle
filled with lies what would be a key to
a castle built upon doubts and fears
hopeful I made out in the world may lie
but there is one who cannot lie when I
stood before the cross God made a
promise to me that I would be saved my
doubts and fears don't change a thing.
God made a promise that goes beyond my
feeble doubts don't you see his promise
we already have his promise and that is
our cave
so you want to do this the hard way
very well I guess I will have to finish
you off my sister you have no more power
over us despair
[Music]
[Applause]
We made it Christian with delightful
mountains the Promised Land for those
who stay on the narrow path peace
contentment and happiness for the rest
of our days until it is time for us to
enter the celestial city
I wish faithful had been here to see
this place don't feel sorry for a
faithful she's with her Lord in a place
even more beautiful than this I suppose
you're right look there a man is coming
down the path going the wrong direction
sir you are going backwards backwards
you say well yes the celestial City is
the other direction
oh really my name is atheist I once
thought like you I searched for the
celestial City as well and let me assure
you no such place exists on this earth
you must look beyond what you can see
the kingdom of heaven lies in the next
world you know I met a man named
ignorant on my journey he had a very
interesting point about your religion
he said that it's silly to think that
faith in Christ will get you to heaven
because one could simply say that they
believe continue to live a wicked life
style and still get into heaven that
sounds a bit unfair doesn't it well his
name was ignorant for a good reason
a love for Christ and a wicked lifestyle
never go together that's why it is said
that a faith without works is a dead
faith not because works are required to
go to heaven but because real faith will
produce real works on its own a real
faith heals a wicked lifestyle and that
will shine through in a true believer
besides God can see into the hearts of
people do you think that God can be
tricked someone may live their entire
life acting out a religion through works
of routine and ritual then be turned
away at the gates of heaven God knows
who his children are fools
huh for a moment I considered what he
said hey that's what I'm here for
[Music]
What is this place beyond this wall lies
the river of death it is the final
passage before reaching the celestial.
City
how are we to into this River if we
cannot see it we must choose a good
place to cross and plan our steps is
there a way around it you cannot see the
river before you begin to cross nor is
there another way around it is a step
that you must take crossing the river
can be peaceful for your soul or it can
be terrifying depending on the strength
of your faith very well.
I can't see anything I can't see where
I'm going.
Christian let your faith in Christ bring
you comfort it is he not you that will
get you across the river
[Music]
Christian Christian it's the river of
death
we must go through there's no other way
around
[Music]
Hopefull okay I'm thinking I can't make
it through.
Oh Christian I feel the bottom we can
make it I can see the gate my burden I
can feel it my sins are sinking me to
the bottom I can't escape no Christian
your Virgin is gone open your eyes
you're going to make it to the other
side no it's too deep
I've been abandoned my sin was too great
you have been made whole
look there he waits for you he made a
promise to you Christian yes yes I see
him again I see the other side I see it
[Music]
Christian I want you to meet somebody
he's gone that pulled us out of the
river
yes yes I know we've met before
[Music]
This letter I write to my wife whom I
loved dearly I am writing you this
letter before I cross over the river of
death my destination lies on the other
side I wish now I could have convinced
you to make this journey with me
but at the time I was unable to describe
the journey at hand all I had was an
emptiness in my heart and a desire to
fill it now looking back I can speak
more clearly and tell you that my
journey was not in vain this I know we
are born into this world wanting the
world wanting possessions titles glory
wealth but they are all fading they are
deceptions that cannot bring us
happiness or peace I pray that you will
not sell your soul to the things of this
world
let your heart leave those things behind
for there is a promise that awaits you a
way to be reconciled with God in this
life and in the life to come it is true
that we are born with a sinful nature
and I have come to know sin as anything
I do that requires me to turn my back to.
God first we are all guilty of this and
no amount of work we do can repair the
damage done our deeds and efforts are
unclean because we do them with our
backs to God the wages of sin is death
not the death of the body but death of
the Spirit is by His grace alone that we
have hoped for salvation he sent His Son.
Jesus Christ to bear that burden on the
cross when he died our sin died with him
Christ was then raised from the dead to
prove that death has no power over those
who follow him
Christ has conquered death defeated
guilt wipes sin away halted sorrow and
given us a clean conscience before our.
Father in heaven it is the free gift of.
God we must only accept it let God's.
Word guide you let God's family give you
strength and let God's sacrifice pay
your cost all of this I pray that you
will begin your own journey Christiana
[Music]
You